**Why Total Fertility Rate ?**

It is hardly deniable that population growth is one of the greatest challenges of this century (NATO, 2011) with regards to resource allocation and more broadly sustainable development. 
Some have highlighted the relevance of focusing on population dynamics to grasp the scale of the current challenge with respect to sustainability (United Nations Population Fund, 2013). 
Population growth impacts many aspects of society such as employment, poverty, access to health, education, food and water consumption amongst others, making it hard for policy makers to ignore it. 
Others have emphasized the environmental challenge that population growth poses by commenting on the pressure humans are putting on food and water resources and on the increasing amount of Co2 emissions caused by humans’ activity  (Butler & Dovers, 2020). 
The environmental threat that increasing population growth is posing appears like the future main’s area of interest, all the more when looking at the current state of Earth. According to Bonneuil and Fressoz (2016), we entered a new geological era in Earth’s history. 
This new epoch commonly called the Anthropocene is, unlike the previous ones, dominated by humans since their activity constitutes a new form of power that can change nature to the point that it is reflected in the rock strata (National Geographic, 2020). 
Looking at both the current state of Earth and the future issues population growth implies, we can foresee several matters : less resources in food, water, energy, the multiplication of climate refugees etc. Accordingly, these changes might cause starvation problems, conflicts for the control of resources or even migration crisis. 
Considering the significance of these challenges for development, peace and prosperity, adjusting policies according to population growth projections could be a way to get closer to some form of sustainable development. 
Tracking down The Total Fertility Rate (TFR) which is the indicator evaluating the total number of children that would be born to each woman if she were to live to the end of her child-bearing years (between 15 and 49) (OECD Data, 2020), is a reliable way to estimate future population growth rates and thus anticipate, to some extent, the potential challenges it entails which would allow societies to better apprehend them (Britannica, 2020).

**Why Africa?**
Tracking TFR in Africa seemed particularly relevant when comparing this continent’s projections (OECD, 2012) to the rest of the world. 
The United States Agency for International Development (2011) have investigated some determinants of fertility in Africa to better inform policies which is what we are aiming to achieve in this research project. 
They have examined the determinants of fertility following Bongaarts model which analyzes the proximate determinants of fertility combining direct factors such as contraception, sterility, marriage or induced abortion. 
Background determinants assembling less obvious variables like education, labor force participation, culture etc. were also recognized  as influential factors (Foote et al.,1993). 
Other researchers like Ifelunini et al. highlighted the relevance of some of these variables by focusing precisely on female education, contraceptive use or per capita income as fertility rate’s key determinants in Nigeria and Ghana. (2018)

**Why these variables?**

Our will to specifically focus on three background variables (Human Development Index (HDI), Female’s enrolment in secondary education and Female Labor Force Participation Rate) is not only the consequence of a methodological decision but mainly the result of the meaning we are aiming to bring to this project in the light of development and women empowerment. 
Moreover, some of these variables have had not been investigated and studied with the approach we are willing to take in relation to TFR in Africa. 

Regarding the correlation between HDI and TFR, it has been examined generally and not in a precise location (Almasi-Hashiani, Sepidarkish & Omani-Samani, 2016), it has been studied jointly with unemployment in Romania
(A.Cojocariu, 2015) and independently in Europe but not specifically in Africa. 
When looking at the correlation in itself, it is commonly assumed that HDI and TFR are negatively correlated although this relationship is actually more complex. 
According to a study published in the scientific journal Nature (Myrskylä and al. 2009), the relationship between TFR and HDI can be illustrated by a J shaped curve: highly developed countries in the 21st century would see their fertility rate rise after having reached a high level of development instead of seeing it stagnate or decrease. 
On the other hand, some researchers believe (F. Furuoka, 2009) that lower levels of HDI are associated with high levels of TRF and vice versa. Our investigation will thus enable us to determine the dominant trend on the African continent.

The correlation between TFR and Female Education in Africa is more obvious and has been proved and explained by various researchers. 
According to the different findings, Girls’ education is also negatively correlated with TFR (Pradhan, 2015): female education drives a decline in TFR for different reasons. 
Firstly, attending school longer allow girls to delay marriage and thus child bearing (Pradhan, 2015). 
Educated females are also more aware of contraceptive methods (Kim, 2016) and education also allows them to be informed of the existence of family planning services (Götmark, 2020). 
Moreover, high level of education leads to higher level of incomes which assure good living conditions to children thus higher life expectancy which implies that women no longer need to have more children to remedy short life expectancy. 
Finally, higher incomes will enable women to offer stronger economic capitals when having few children. 
Thus, understanding the negativity of this correlation and approving it throughout our analysis will allow us to appraise and emphasize on the various benefits of targeting female education through policies.  

The correlation between female labor participation rate and TFR has been tackled for different regions of the world such as the US (Japaridze, 2019), OECD countries in general (Mishra & Smyth, 2019) and for Uganda (Bbaale, 2014). 
As stated by these reports, a two way correlation has been observed: TFR has an impact on Female Labor Participation Rate and vice versa (Mishra & Smyth, 2019). 
It has been noted that an increase in TFR can generate an increase in Female Labor Participation because more children may require more income to earn. 
A rise in TFR could also cause a decrease in Female Labor Participation. We can suppose that having more children may compel mothers to stay home to take care of their children in order to avoid  paying for childcare or because of the strong emotional attachment that mothers share with their young children. 
On the other hand, an increase in Female Labor Participation can have a negative impact on TFR. Employed women may want to put their career above motherhood. The supposed incompatibility between motherhood and employment is not really relevant anymore in developed countries. 
Our project will therefore investigate whether these interpretations can be applied to the African continent.  
