# The Data Sets (nature of data, sources of data, problems with data)*

The data that we have used for this project come from a wide range of reputable sources. Our core data set is [TFR data from the World Bank](https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.DYN.TFRT.IN). This data set provides the TFR for each country from the years 1960 to 2018. The zipfile from this source also included an additional data file with a table that maps each country based on its country code to the respective geographical region of the country *(ex: North America, South Asia, etc)*. 

Besides this core data set we used four complementary data sets from a range of sources which apply to the various variables that we would like to explore in relation to TFR. These data sets are outlined below: 
* 1. [Female education data](https://data.un.org/Data.aspx?q=female+education&d=UNESCO&f=series%3aFEP_23) was found from the UN dataset. This dataset provides the percentage of females in secondary education by country from 1975 to 2015. We will be using this variable as an indicator of the level of female education within a given country.
* 2. The second data set pertains to the [female labor force participation rate](https://ourworldindata.org/female-labor-supply) and found from Our World in Data. This data set provides the percentage of females over 15 years of age participating in the labor force in each country.
* 3. The third data set contained [Human Development Index (HDI) data](http://hdr.undp.org/en/data#) from  the UN Development Program. The HDI is a composite index that measures the degree of development of a country and in this data set is given for each country from 1990 to 2018
* 4. Lastly, to assess the income level of each country, [GNI per capita data](https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/NY.GNP.PCAP.CD) was obtained from the World Bank. Data was given for each country from 1960 to 2019. 

All of our data was downloaded as comma-separated values (CSV) files to aid data manipulation in Python. 

**Cleaning the Data**

Before beginning our analysis it was necessary to clean the data. This involved dropping  empty columns that lacked data and removing fields unnecessary for our analysis. For example, our analysis is based on country specific analysis of TFR, but the TFR dataset had regional data as well (ex: providing the average TFR for South Asia). Hence we had to omit the rows that referred to regions and not countries. 

**Merging the Data**

After cleaning each individual data set we had to merge all our data into one large dataframe in order to carry out further analysis and create visualisations. This proved slightly difficult because our data had different shapes, with some data formatted as long data and others as wide data. Using the pandas melt function, all data was converted into long data because it is easier to work with this data to carry out analysis and create visualisations. 

The data was merged on two indexes, Country and Year. The merge was also difficult to carry out as the country names did not correspond exactly across all data sets. For instance, in the TFR data set Egypt was labelled as "Egypt Arab Rep." while in other data sets it was simply "Egypt". As such, the country names that did not correspond had to be changed using the rename function so that our merge was effective. The full merge hence gave us a dataset with all relevant variables (TFR, HDI, female education, female labour force participation and income) according to the country and year. 

As our analysis is based on the African continent, the full merge data had to be further cleaned to only include countries on the African continent. This was possible using the additional data from the TFR dataset which possessed a a table of each country and its corresponding region. However, one problem encountered was that the regional divisions provided by the World Bank did not match the region we wanted to analyse. For instance, countries on the African continent were split between 2 regional categories: *Sub-Saharan Africa* and *Middle East & North Africa*. The latter of the regional categories also included additional countries not on the African continent, hence irrelevant to our analysis. To solve this issue, we used Python to select for all country rows that corresponded with "Sub Saharan Africa" under the Region column. On the World Bank website, we found the countries included in each region and were able to select only those on the African continent under the "Middle East & North Africa" region label to add to the dataset. This  created a fully merged dataframe with only African countries. 


# Methodology (methods used, what analytical techniques and visualisations, software used, problems encountered, solutions found)

Our data analysis was completely carried out using Python and associated visualization libraries. The main visualisation libraries used were plotly express and seaborn.

*Step 1: Summary Statistics* 

Descriptive statistics were carried out on our key variables of interest to better understand our data. 

*Step 2: Contextualising Africa in the World*

Results from our summary statistics were used to understand how TFR in Africa compared to the rest of the world and in comparison to specific regions. This analysis prompted the creation of 2 visualisations: a scatterplot of TFR in 2018 by region and a line graph comparing the world average TFR and African average TFR overtime. This served to justify our focus on Africa for further analysis. 

*Step 3: Chloropleth Map*

To comprehend the geograhical distribution of TFR in Africa and add in the comoponent of changes over time, an interactive chloropleth map was created using plotly express. 

*Step 4: Single and Multivariable Linear Regressions*

Linear regression was carried out using the Python module statsmodels in order to ascertain the relationship between various variables (female education , female labor force participation, income level, development level of country) and the TFR in African countries. As HDI is a composite index that includes various indicators relating to education and income it was ommited from the multivariable regression analysis and only analysed via a single linear regression analysis. 

The multivariable linear regression was initially intended to include female education, national income and female labour force participation. However, due to the assuption of no multicolinearity in multiregression models, female labour-force had to be ommitted. The variance inflation factor (VIF) detects multicolinearity, and a VIF value of above 5 usually indicates high multicolinearity between variables. Calcuating the VIF yielded a value of above 5 for the variables of female education and female labor-force participation. Hence, we chose to omit female labor-force participation rates (LFPR). This omission led us to further investigate LFPR in further visualisations. 

*Step 5: Single and Multivariable Linear Regressions*

Results from our regression analysis warranted the need for additional investigation into the variable of female labor force participation rate as it could not be included in our analysis. To further explore the relationship between TFR and female labor force paricipation rate we created a 2D contour histogram showing the relation between female labour force participation rates and TFR. 
