
# Single and Multivariable Linear Regressions
1. HDI vs TFR


From the scatterplot showing the relationship between HDI and TFR in African countries, there seems to be a clear negative correlation where as HDI decreases TFR decreases as well. The results of the linear regression model run through statsmodels are shown below.  

The linear regression line has a  slope of -9.44. This model predicts that for an increase in HDI of 1, the TFR decreases by 9.44. As the HDI is an index that ranges from 0 to 1, this coefficient can more effectively be interpreted at a smaller scale. This means that for an increase of HDI by 0.1 the TFR decreases by 0.944. The R-squared value of 0.720 suggests a moderately strong relationship between TFR and the development level of a country. This value can be interpretted to mean that 72% of the variation in HDI can be explained by the development level of a country in Africa. The p-value from the model is zero and below the signifiance level of 0.05. This means the relationship observed is statistically significant. 


#. Multivariable linear regression

The table below outlines the results of the multivariable linear regression that was run using the independent variables of female secondary education and income.

# World TFR Histogram 
Shape: Using 2018 data, the distribution of World TFR is skewed right, as the histogram’s tail is on the right-hand side. There is a concentration of data among countries with lower total fertility rates. The vast majority of countries in the world record lower total fertility rates (1-3), while decreasing numbers of countries record higher total fertility rates (4-7).

Center: The data seems to be centred around a total fertility rate of 1.8 children, implying that roughly half of the countries in the world have total fertility rates of 1.8 children. 

Spread: The data range is from 1 to about 7, so the approximate range equals 7-1 = 6 children.

Outliers: There doesn’t seem to be any obvious outliers.


# Africa TFR Histogram 
Shape: Using 2018 data, the distribution of TFR in Africa is fairly symmetric, as both tails of the histogram are approximately the same length. The data is concentrated among African countries with total fertility rates of 4-5 children, which is approximately in the middle of the range. 

Center: The center of the distribution is easily located, equating to a single mode of 4.6 children. This indicates that most African countries record total fertility rates of about 4.6 children.

Spread: The data range is from about 1.5 to 7, so the approximate range equals 7-1.5 = 5.5 children.

Outliers: There are 2 possible outliers to the far left (1.5) and far right (6.8) of the histogram, which also represent both ends of the data range.


Therefore, on average, most countries in the world have lower total fertility rates compared to those on the African continent.  

# 2D Density Contour Map (LFPR vs. TFR)

Scatterplot https://chart-studio.plotly.com/~uclqsdh/14/#/

Total Fertility Rate (TFR) and Female Labour Force Participation Rate (% of females aged 15 and above) (LFPR) data for countries in Africa was used. The earliest recorded data is from around 1990 and the latest recorded data is from around 2017. In the scatterplot, TFR (y-axis) is plotted against LFPR (x-axis) and each African counutry is represented by a series of dots which show how its TFR and LFPR have changed relative to each other over a period of time. For all African countries, it appears that as time progresses, TFR decreases. This can be seen from the yellow/lighter dots (indicating recent years) being plotted lower down on the y-axis. Longer dot lines indicate larger changes in TFR and the largest decreases in TFR are by about 3 children. The results are more mixed for LFPR, with only some African countries increasing LFPR rates as time progresses, while most have seen little if not no change at all. Visually, this is shown from the dot lines (from darker to lighter dots) for each country skewing right if LFPR has increased, left if LFPR decreased or remaining fairly straight if there has been little change in LFPR. The data suggests that African countries have shown significant development through the general fall in TFR rates, suggesting population growth at a more sustainable rate now than ever before. However, there is still much potential for gender equality by means of greater female participation in the labour force.


A 2D density contour map was then derived from the scatterplot. 

The values on the density contour map ranging from 5 to 55 are indicative of the number of dots from the scatterplot that were plotted in a particular area of the graph. As seen from areas on the map with the highest density (values of 40-55/highlighted in yellow), most of the data was plotted in regions where LFPR is 63-85% and TFR is 4.5-6.5 children. The high TFR and LFPR levels paint a rather different picture compared to the general TFR and LFPR trends of all African countries analysed from the scatter plot earlier. However, this is the result of child labour that has been exercised more frequently in African countries such as Rwanda, Malawai, Burkina Faso etc. that make up most of the dot plots in the highest density region and also have lower HDI.

# Scatter plot comparing TFR by regions of the world in 2018 

Scatter plot :

This visualisation is a scatter plot showing the spread of Total Fertility Rates values by regions of the world in 2018. The Total Fertility Rate scale ranges between 1 and 7 children per woman and each region is labelled with a specific colour on the right side of the scatter plot.

Our aim is to compare the African Total Fertility Rate to the rest of the world in order to justify our will to focus on the African continent . In fact,  we can clearly see that Sub-Saharan Africa’s countries Total Fertility Rate is mainly located between 4 and 6 whereas the other regions’ TFR is below 5 (except for three values). We can therefore conclude that Sub-Saharan Africa and thus the major part of the African continent, holds the highest Total Fertility Rate at world scale in 2018. This is partly why Africa is the first continent to be concerned with the challenge of population growth. 

















