
# Single and Multivariable Linear Regressions

The overall single linear regression results are outlined in this table:
| Independent variable            | Coefficient | R-squared     |
| :---                            |    :----:   |          ---: |
| HDI                             | -9.46       | 0.715         |
| Female education                | -0.108      | 0.401         |
| Female labor-force participation| 0.0263	    | 0.139         |
| Income (GNI per capita)          | -0.0006     | 0.487         |


1. HDI vs TFR

From the scatterplot showing the relationship between HDI and TFR in African countries, there seems to be a clear negative correlation where as TFR decreases, HDI increases. 

The linear regression line has a slope of -9.46. This model predicts that for an increase in HDI of 1, the TFR decreases by 9.46. As the HDI is an index that ranges from 0 to 1, this coefficient can more effectively be interpreted at a smaller scale. This means that for an increase of HDI by 0.1 the TFR decreases by 0.946. The R-squared value of 0.715 suggests a moderately strong relationship between TFR and the development level of a country. This value can be interpreted to mean that 71.5% of the variation in TFR can be explained by the development level of a country in Africa. The p-value from the model is zero and below the significance level of 0.05. This means the relationship observed is statistically significant. Human development hence seems to possess a significant correlation to TFR. 

2. Female education vs TFR

This scatter plot exhibits a moderately negative correlation, where as female participation in secondary education increases, TFR generally decreases. The model has a coefficient of -0.108, meaning that for a 1% increase in female secondary-education participation, the TFR decreases by about 0.108. The R-squared value of 0.401 indicates a moderate linear relationship between TFR and female education levels, with about 40.1% of the variation in TFR able to explained by the female participation in secondary education. The p-value from the model is zero and below the significance level of 0.05, hence the relationship observed is statistically significant.

3. Female labor-force participation vs TFR

The scatter plot showing the relationship between female labour-force participation and TFR is slightly more difficult to interpret. The regression model predicts a positive correlation between these variables, with a coefficient of 0.0263 and an R-squared value of 0.139. The R-squared is quite low, indicates a very weak correlation between these variables. 

While the single linear regression interprets and finds a positive correlation between these variables, looking deeper at the data reveals different trends. Some countries such as Mali and Benin exhibit a negative correlation between TFR and female labor-force participation, while others show positive correlations such as Burundi and Burkina Faso. These observations fuel our decision to create further visualisations that explore the relationship between TFR and female-labor force participation rate. 

4. Income (GNI per capita) vs TFR

This scatter plot suggests a negative correlation. The model predicts the income coefficient to be -0.0006 and an R-squared value of 0.487, indicates a moderate linear relationship between TFR and GNI per capita. The negative coefficient predicts that for a $1 increase in GNI per capita, TFR would decrease by 0.0006. The p-value from the model is zero and below the significance level of 0.05. This means the relationship observed is statistically significant.


5. Multivariable linear regression

| Independent variable            | Coefficient | R-squared     |
| :---                            |    :----:   |          ---: |
| Female education                | -0.0861     | 0.639         |
| Income (GNI per capita          | -0.0005     |  -            |

In order to improve our models and understand the combined-effects of these variables we ran a multivariable linear regression model. Originally, all variables were planned to be included. However, because HDI is a composite index inherently encompassing indicators related to education and income it was omitted. Female labor-force participation rate was also omitted because of its extremely weak linear relationship exhibited in the single-linear regression and because it exhibited multicollinearity with female education. Hence, our final multi-regression model explored the influence of income and female education on TFR, with the results outlined below. 

The higher R-squared value of this model compared to the individual R-squared of each of the variables explored, means that looking at the combined influences of these variables can better explains changes in TFR. An R-squared of 0.639 suggests a moderate relationship between these variables. The coefficient of both variables are negative, indicating that they possess a negative relationship with TFR. All other variables kept equal, a 1% increase in female education rates is predicted to decrease TFR by 0.0861, and a $1 increase in national income is predicted to decrease TFR by 0.0005. 


# World TFR Histogram 
Shape: Using 2018 data, the distribution of World TFR is skewed right, as the histogram’s tail is on the right-hand side. There is a concentration of data among countries with lower total fertility rates. The vast majority of countries in the world record lower total fertility rates (1-3), while decreasing numbers of countries record higher total fertility rates (4-7).

Center: The data seems to be centred around a total fertility rate of 1.8 children, implying that roughly half of the countries in the world have total fertility rates of 1.8 children. 

Spread: The data range is from 1 to about 7, so the approximate range equals 7-1 = 6 children.

Outliers: There doesn’t seem to be any obvious outliers.


# Africa TFR Histogram 
Shape: Using 2018 data, the distribution of TFR in Africa is fairly symmetric, as both tails of the histogram are approximately the same length. The data is concentrated among African countries with total fertility rates of 4-5 children, which is approximately in the middle of the range. 

Center: The center of the distribution is easily located, equating to a single mode of 4.6 children. This indicates that most African countries record total fertility rates of about 4.6 children.

Spread: The data range is from about 1.5 to 7, so the approximate range equals 7-1.5 = 5.5 children.

Outliers: There are 2 possible outliers to the far left (1.5) and far right (6.8) of the histogram, which also represent both ends of the data range.


Therefore, on average, most countries in the world have lower total fertility rates compared to those on the African continent.  

# 2D Density Contour Map (LFPR vs. TFR)

Scatterplot https://chart-studio.plotly.com/~uclqsdh/14/#/

Total Fertility Rate (TFR) and Female Labour Force Participation Rate (% of females aged 15 and above) (LFPR) data for countries in Africa was used. The earliest recorded data is from around 1990 and the latest recorded data is from around 2017. In the scatterplot, TFR (y-axis) is plotted against LFPR (x-axis) and each African country is represented by a series of dots which show how its TFR and LFPR have changed relative to each other over a period of time. For all African countries, it appears that as time progresses, TFR decreases. This can be seen from the yellow/lighter dots (indicating recent years) being plotted lower down on the y-axis. Longer dot lines indicate larger changes in TFR and the largest decreases in TFR are by about 3 children. The results are more mixed for LFPR, with only some African countries increasing LFPR rates as time progresses, while most have seen little if not no change at all. Visually, this is shown from the dot lines (from darker to lighter dots) for each country skewing right if LFPR has increased, left if LFPR decreased or remaining fairly straight if there has been little change in LFPR. The data suggests that African countries have shown significant development through the general fall in TFR rates, suggesting population growth at a more sustainable rate now than ever before. However, there is still much potential for gender equality by means of greater female participation in the labour force.


A 2D density contour map was then derived from the scatterplot and shows the distribution of data points. 

The values on the density contour map ranging from 5 to 55 are indicative of the number of dots from the scatterplot that were plotted in a particular area of the graph. As seen from areas on the map with the highest density (values of 40-55/highlighted in yellow), most of the data was plotted in regions where LFPR is 63-85% and TFR is 4.5-6.5 children. High TFR coupled with high LFPR levels paint a rather different picture compared to the general TFR and LFPR trends of all African countries analysed from the scatter plot earlier. 

***I don't think we can assert this causation without supporting lit or exploring it ourselves, also the LFPR data only refers to individuals 15+ so does not refer to children*** 
However, this is the result of child labour that has been exercised more frequently in African countries such as Rwanda, Malawai, Burkina Faso etc. that make up most of the dot plots in the highest density region and also have lower HDI.

# Scatter plot comparing TFR by regions of the world in 2018 

Scatter plot : https://plotly.com/~uclqsdh/23/ 

This visualisation, which is a scatter plot showing the spread of total fertility rates by regions of the world in 2018, was created using the Total Fertility Rate (TFR) dataset. The total fertility rate scale ranges between 1 and 7 children per woman and each region is labelled with a specific colour on the right side of the scatter plot.

Our aim is to compare the African total fertility rate to the rest of the world in order to justify our will to focus on the African continent. In fact,  we can clearly see that Sub-Saharan Africa’s countries total fertility rates represented by green dots, are mainly located between 4 and 6 whereas the other regions’ fertility rates are below 5 (except for three countries). We can therefore conclude that Sub-Saharan Africa and thus the major part of the African continent, holds the highest total fertility rate at world scale in 2018. This is partly why Africa is the first continent to be concerned with the challenge of population growth. 

# Average World and African TFR Line Plot

Line Plot: https://plotly.com/~uclqsdh/28/

Like the scatter plot comparing TFR by regions of the world in 2018, this graph shows that there is and always has been a difference in TFR between the world average and African average. In 1960 the world average was 5.5 children, whilst African’s average was 6.6. The world average has a down-ward sloping trend, which results in a TFR of 2.6 in 2018. There is a slight increase in African’s average till 1975 with an average of 6.7. Afterwards, it steadily decreases to 4.2. Despite the slight increase in the first 15 years, both line plots seem to be parallel to each other, suggesting they follow similar trends over time. This justifies our analysis on this continent.

# Choropleth Maps of Africa 

This map is an interactive choropleth map of Africa giving total fertility rates' evolution between 1960 and 2018 in each country. Fertility rates (from 1 to 8) are represented by a color gradient, labelled on the right side of the map, ranging from yellow for low rates (around 2) to red for high rates (above 6). The slider at the bottom of the map enables to visualise the evolution across years. 

Following the 1960 map we see that, globally, every country are colored in orange/red meaning that each woman, in these countries, has between 5 and 8 children in average.Comparing the 2018 map to the one from 1960 allows us to identify the evolution trend that prevailed during these 60 years on the African continent. Generally speaking, the North and the South are in yellow whereas Sub-Saharan countries are in orange. This suggests that low fertility rates (between 2 and 4) are located in the North and in the South and that high fertility rates are found in the Sub-Saharan region. It can be pointed out though that no woman has more than 6 children in these Sub-Saharan countries while this was the minimum rate in 1960. Nigeria remains the only country, however, where women have approximatively 7 children in their child bearing years. This decline in fertility rates which lead to a regional fragmentation between the Sub-Saharan region and the rest of the continent can be explained by different factors which will be studied along the project. 

When looking into more details, we can identify a turning point. Between 1960 and 1980, the African continent is globally orange meaning that the TFR remained rather high during this period, although some North African countries as well as South Africa were already seeing their TFR decline. The general decreasing tendency, however, precisely commenced in the 1980's. In 1985, North countries such as Morocco or Tunisia, and South Africa had a declining rate that have dropped from 6/7 children per woman to less than 5. On the other hand, Sub-Saharan countries' TFR had stagnated between 1960 and 1980 and thus remained high in the 1980's. This regionally fragmented evolution in TFR continued until the 2000's. From that point on, North and South regions of the continent's TFR carried on decreasing and Sub-Saharan countries started to follow the trend. Between 2000 and 2010, women in some Sub-Saharan countries like Sudan were not having more than 5 children. As a result, Sub-Saharan countries ended up having rates of 4/5 children per woman in 2018 while North and South countries have had attained rather low TFR (3 or less children per woman). 

This fragmented declining trend can be the result of many different evolutions but it seems rather obvious that it is mainly due to the increase in development level. The Human Development Index (HDI) in North and South countries has increased continually since 1960 and, as proved by the linear regression, HDI and TFR are correlated. This decrease in TFR can therefore be explained (partially though) by a rise in HDI. 


# TFR and FLPR of Highest and Lowest HDI Countries

1. HDI

As seen from the HDI line plot, the three African countries with the highest HDI in 2018 are Seychelles, Mauritius, and Algeria. Both Mauritius and Algeria start off with an HDI of around 0.60 in 1990 and move towards a 0.76 and 0.79. However, due to missing data we can’t determine Seychelles trend before 1990, but it ends up with the highest HDI of 0.80. 
When we look at the HDI trends of the countries with the lowest HDIs, there is a similar trend which starts off with lower numbers and ends lower. Only the Central African Republic seems to deviate from a linear curve. In 1990 it had a HDI of 0.32, decreased, and then went up. After 2012 there was a dip in the curve, which could be related to the sudden drop in female labor participation rate. In 2018 all lowest HDI countries end up with an HDI between 0.37 and 0.40.

2. TFR

For the three highest HDI countries there have been sudden drops in TFR, which then have stabilized. Algeria had a TFR of 7.52 in 1960 and then went down to a 3.02 in 2018. However, their lowest TFR was in 2002 when it was 2.40. Mauritius follows a similar trend to Algeria, but has their main drop in TFR earlier in the 1980s where it dropped to 1.99. In 2018 it has a TFR of 2.23 and started with a 6.17. Some of the data is missing for Seychelles, but in the scatterplot we see that it also has a downward sloping curve which stabilizes around the turn of the century. 
	The curves for the lowest HDI countries regarding TFR look quite different from the highest HDI countries. Chad’s curve stands out as the TFR increases significantly till 2000 and then has a downward facing slope. Their highest TFR of 7.43 is in 1996. Due to lack of data regarding Chad’s HDI before the 2000s and FLPR before the 1990s, it is hard to determine how the TFR has been influenced. Although all three curves first slope upwards, all three have a steeper downward facing slope, indicating that TFR could potentially decrease significantly over the years. 
	
	The TFR vs FLPR graphs interestingly show that while Seychelles exhibits a somewhat negative correlation between TFR and LFPR, the same cannot be necessarily said for other countries. For instance, our selection of countries with lower human development levels (blue) exhibit somewhat positive correlations where TFR increases as FLPR increases, going against existing literature that asserts negative correlations. 

3. FLPR

The FLPR curve from the 1990s till 2017 of the highest HDI countries in Africa slopes upwards, but does not increase significantly over the span of 28 years. Mauritius has an increase of 6.85% whilst Algeria only has an increase of 3.73%. It is interesting to note that although both curves look similar, Mauritius had a FLPR of 38.27% in 1990 and Algeria 11.496. 
	Contrary to the highest HDI countries, the lowest HDI countries have downward facing slopes. However, in 2017 all FLPRs are considerably higher than those of Mauritius and especially Algeria. This indicates that in this case a high FLPR is less beneficial for low HDI countries. This is also seen in the scatter plot that shows the HDI against the FLPR. Niger which has a higher FLPR has a lower HDI and the Central African Republic and Chad have a lower FLPR and a higher HDI. Of course we cannot conclude causation at this point, but this finding does go against the current literature.

















