Given the nature of our qualitative data science project, we aimed to investigate our datasets as accurately as possible and present them in a bias-free manner. We have done this to the best of our ability, however it is also important to note the limitations in our methodology.

The first limitation we faced was in regards to missing data within our datasets. This resulted in several blank cells on our csv files, as organisations would leave a blank whenever there was no data collected. We understand certain variables such as Female Labour Participation Rate (LFPR) and Female Education are harder to record, especially in developing regions in Africa. However, this made finding general trends for more difficult given that we couldn’t account for all countries e.g. missing Seychelles HDI data or had large gaps in the data e.g having HDI data from 2012-2018 for some African countries alongside HDI data from 1960-2018 for others. In such situations, we often had to adapt our approach, so for example when creating the overlapped HDI histograms we only used 2018 data - the only complete dataset for all countries, instead of our original plan of using a range of years spanning from 1960.

For our line plots and linear regression, naturally not all our variables fit perfectly on a linear trend, however we chose a linear form visualisation, because this helps audiences to better interpret and understand general trends between our variables. Therefore, we acknowledge our trendline analysis should not be taken as a predicative model, as they were created mainly for exploratory purposes and not to discover a fixed relationship. As humans tend be more focused in general relationships between variables, it is always important to keep in mind the differences of causation vs. correlation. For instance, when we compared Total Fertility Rates (TFR) vs. HDI data for the highest and lowest HDI African countries, it is very possible that they were other hidden factors that accounted towards an upward or downward sloping curve.

Finally, when writing our analysis for the visualisations, it was challenging to ensure that our visualisations really did enhance the data interpretation and we weren’t just forcing a certain ‘story’ onto our data. In our analysis, we always made sure to point out discrepancies, such as the 2D density contour map comparing TFR against LFPR displaying high TFR coupled with high LFPR, which went against the general TFR and LFPR trends we analysed from an earlier scatter plot.
