Overall, our project conducted an in-depth analysis of four variables (Total Fertility Rate, Human Development Index, Income and Female Labour Participation Rate) by investigating their relationships and evolutions across time in Africa in order to better inform policies with regards to sustainable population growth.

We managed to successfully draw out meaningful relationships between Total Fertility Rate (TFR) in Africa and our chosen variables. From our analysis and data visualisations, we uncovered how more developed countries with a higher Human Development Index (HDI) tended to have lower TFR. Similarly, there was a negative correlation between female secondary education and TFR, whereas female education increased over the years, TFR decreased. Our conclusions regarding Female Labour Participation Rate (FLPR) was rather mixed with no significant correlation with TFR. Some African countries displayed positive correlations while others had negative correlations which could be the result of other variables' influence on FLPR such as religion. Finally, the income variable showed a stronger relationship, whereby as national income rose, TFR fell. We felt investigating multiple variables was a good decision because combined influences better explained TFR than a single variable.

HDI, female education and income are all factors commonly linked to socioeconomic condition, therefore this leads us to believe that there is a definite correlation between development and TFR for countries in Africa. The more developed the country, the lower TFR, meaning less children are born which allows for more sustainable population growth. Interestingly, correlations between FLPR and TFR in Africa stray from the clear negative correlations suggested by current literature. 

Therefore, in the light of sustainable development and women empowerment, it seems that implementing policies favouring female's enrolment in secondary education, which could consequently benefit income and HDI, would enhance women's emancipation, employment and limit potential pressure that high population growth rate would put on resources.
