Literature review 

Each year, humanity’s demands and consumption for ecological resources exceeds what the planet can regenerate in that same year. This means that from the middle of the year (usually in summer) the world’s population lives on the credit of the planet’s resources (Earth Overshoot Day, 2020). The fact that the world’s population has now reached 7 billion can certainly (though partly) explain the overconsumption of resources. Considering the United Nations’ projections predicting a population of 16 billions of individuals in 2100 (OECD, 2012) , action must be taken to follow sustainable development goals and, thus, allow humanity to meet their basic needs in the future. This challenge is all the more relevant to the African continent. Indeed, Africa has been the last continent to enter the last stage of the demographic transition model (BBC, 2020). Sub-saharan Africa’s current population growth rate was stagnating around 2.7% in 2019 whereas the world’s population was worth 1.075% (The World Bank, 2020). Accordingly, if Africa’s population growth rate does not decrease, the continent’s population will double by 2050 and will account for a quarter of the world’s population. As claimed by the American scientist Malcom Potts, Sahel could suffer starvation and declining  access to natural resources could cause conflicts and instability in the region (The Economist, 2020) especially since the number of unnourished people increased by 23.9% (FAO, 2020) between the 90’s and 2014-2016. 
